[Music]
your uh son and your wife when I asked
each of them what their favorite
memories were from your career both
immediately said uh the offseason in
which you acquired Kobe Bryant and
Shaquille O'Neal how does that rank for
you well it would be like um I
guess a poverty stricken
family wakes up one morning
and all of a sudden overnight they
become the wealthiest couple in the
world it was
like one of the most elated periods in
my life when we signed Shaquille on
because I worked so hard uh and doing
that establishing a relationship with
him over the phone okay and we had a
great we had just developed a great
report and what was involved with that
well it was you it wasn't always about
basketball it wasn't always about
basketball and you know I like the kid I
like to have fun with people I don't
take myself seriously I never have I
couldn't do that uh and even today um
when I see him it's like oh my God
here's one of my really big kids okay um
but I also told our owner that night I
said look I think we got the best player
in the draft and what an 18-year-old kid
I actually 17 and we could not sign him
to a contract for about 3 months because
he's only 17 years years old and people
always ask about that well it wasn't in
Vogue to draft these young kids it was
not in Vogue and um it took a lot to get
him a lot of hard work and I remember
after that was done and the draft was
done um I had to go in a hospital for 3
days I was just emotionally spent and
exhausted because of how hard you were
working to get and again I don't sleep
okay it was day to me I went to see the
doctor and he said the day after that
and he said we're going to have to put
you in the hospital and I was there for
3 days and I mean I was absolutely
listless I have no no energy at all and
again I've always been a high energy
person um but that was the start of a
another great run for the Lakers and and
um two of the greatest players that
we've had how close did you and Kobe
become
first two or three years were very close
as I say I've always paid attention to
younger players and I think he in
particular my kids drove him around um
Los Angeles and he didn't have a car and
he's 17 years old so it's pretty funny
to think a kid that we thought was a
number one pick I thought he was number
one pick in the draft and our staff
thought he was a number one pick in the
draft and to watch uh watch my kids
driving him around I thought this was
pretty I thought this is pretty funny
why do you think it was so difficult for
Kobe and Shaquille to
coexist good
question you know I've often thought
that if you watch teams let's let's say
somebody has a great player and he's a
little bit older and you've got this
young upand cominging
star and all of a sudden that young
upand cominging star start to look at
him as being the equal of the other
player in terms of ability not inide but
ability and I think that uh Kobe Bryant
played every game like he didn't like
anyone he played against which I loved
he didn't like fraternization which I
loved and Shaquille was like a big teddy
bear who smiled and and but you put him
in a game where something was on the
line and uh you wouldn't want to play
against Shaquille O'neal He was just so
physical and so strong and he was had
great footwork for a guy his size
and Kobe Bryant at his position was like
a Shaquille O'Neal and he kind of played
the game with Force too for a young kid
and I think the combination of um of you
know Kobe wanting to exert himself more
than he had and Shaquille being very um
vocal about who he
was and and some some sometime kidding
ways and you know always some kind of
a new nickname for
himself um I think those two different
personalities had to C somewhere along
the way I didn't think they'd ever cl to
the extent they did tell about the
letter you wrote to both of
them well not only letters but I I just
you I tried to explain to them that
um they were so good for each other and
and they're going to have different kind
of people rooting for them and I
basically said to him that this is
really ridiculous I said this is about
winning and winning championships which
um when you look back in your career a
lot of people going to judge you because
of that
[Music]